Postgraduate taught programmes
Normally a minimum of a second class honours degree or equivalent is required, and some programmes may require a background in the subject area or relevant work experience. You can check on our course list page for course-specific information.
If you have previously studied outside the UK, we would normally accept the equivalent qualification from a recognised university. If you are uncertain about whether your qualifications and/or experience meet the requirements of your chosen programme, please contact the Postgraduate Admissions Office.
You will apply for postgraduate study directly to the University, either:
Online Online application form or Via an International Representative
All of our representatives outside the UK are able to help international students apply. Please see our full list of international representatives or you can email our international recruitment team: sraagents@stir.ac.uk.
What you need to include in your application
Please include the following documents, as well as your application form:
Copies of academic qualifications or certificates
An academic transcript from your undergraduate programme
One reference
A research proposal (for research programmes only)
In addition EU/international students must submit:
A translated version of your transcript (if necessary)
Evidence of English language proficiency (if relevant)
And international students who require a visa to enter the UK must also provide:
A copy of the personal details page of your valid passport
A copy of your current Tier 4 visa, if you are currently studying in the UK
When to apply
You can apply up to two years in advance of the programme start date. There are no application deadlines - we consider applications throughout the year.  International candidates requiring a Tier 4 visa to study in the UK are advised to apply at least 8 weeks in advance of the programme start date.
While candidates can only apply for one programme of study we are happy to assist in requests to change to other programmes – please email graduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk with any requests.
Applicants may be able to defer any offer made by the University, please email graduate.admissions@stir.ac.uk to let us know the reason for deferral.
All applications for postgraduate study are processed by Admissions. When we receive your application we will send you an acknowledgement email containing a unique reference number. Please use this number if you need to contact us about any aspect of your application.
Once a decision is made, the response you receive could be one of the following:
An unconditional offer, which means that you satisfy all the entry requirements
A conditional offer, which means you have yet to satisfy the entry requirements. We will tell you what you will need to do to achieve these requirements
We are unable to offer you a place
If you receive an offer, please respond as soon as possible.
When we receive your acceptance of an offer, you will be sent an email acknowledging receipt of this. If you require an entry visa to the UK you will be sent instructions on how to proceed. At this stage, you will also be sent details of how to apply for University accommodation.
You will receive a welcome/pre-enrolment email during the summer if your programme of study starts in September, (January if your programme starts in February). This will include:
confirmation of online enrolment procedures
fee payment methods/options
details of our airport collection services
full details of all of our welcome and orientation events for new students
Equal opportunities: fair admissions
In accordance with its Charter, the University takes no account of religious, racial, gender, age or political considerations in admitting students.
Disability/special needs are not usually a bar to entry to programmes, but you are encouraged to fully declare these at an early stage so that any special arrangements are made before you join us. You must also declare past criminal convictions. This is particularly relevant for those applying to Social Work, Education and Nursing, Midwifery and Health.